PARTICLES
Particles are monosyllabic morphemes that can be attached to all the different parts of speech and add a semantic nuance to a word or sentence.

Question particles
Of the three question particles -ko, -yo and -ʔo, the question particle -yo is the most used. Addition of this question particle converts the sentence into a yes-or-no question. Affirmation can be expressed by e 'yes' and negation by ma 'no'. Besides using a question particle, it is perhaps far more common to answer with a finite affirmative or negated form.
A typical question consists of one affirmative and one negated finite verb with the question particle added to both finite forms.
The question particle -ko differs from -yo and -ʔo in that the question particle -ko can only be added to verbs.
The question particle -ʔo is an all-round question particle that can be added to any part of speech.

The topic particle -kə
The topic particle -kə (TOP) may be attached to nouns, pronouns, adjectives and adverbs to topicalise the word the topic particle is attached to. Topicalising a word means making the word the theme of the sentence.

The contrastive particle -ne
The contrastive particle -ne (CTR) has contrastive and adversative meaning.
The particle has an allomorph -n after words ending in a vowel. The contrastive particle -ne can be added after nouns, personal pronouns, and adverbs.
In many instances, the particle adds just a slight contrastive notion to the sentence.

The emphatic particle -ŋa
The emphatic particle -ŋa has an allophone -ŋ after words ending in a vowel. Added to case endings and nouns, the emphatic particle -ŋa expresses a meaning comparable to that expressed by English 'the very'. The empahtic particle can also modify adverbs and verb forms.

The affirmative particle -ha
The affirmative particle -ha (AFF) expects an affirmative answer a 'yes' to a question. The implication therefore is that the speaker feels quite certain of the information conveyed by the sentence.

The assertive particle -ke
The assertive particle -ke (ASS) adds extra assertion to a verb.

he probability particle -pʰo
The particle -pʰo (PRB) expresses probability of the utterance.

The reported speech particle -tʰe
The reported speech particle -tʰe indicates that the information conveyed by the utterance is second-hand.
There is no marker for direct speech. The words of the direct speech are just placed before the finite verbum dicendi in the sentence.
In Kulung, there is no marker for indirect speech.

The emotion particle -i
The particle -i (EMO) imbues a word or sentence with additional emotion. The emotions that can be found with this particle may vary from anger or despair to surprise.
