A Kulung finite verb consists of a verb stem to which up to three affixes can be added. These affixes may indicate tense, person, number and negation and even distinguish between inclusive vs. exclusive.
The majority of affixes are portemanteau morphemes, i.e. one morpheme conveys two or more semantic features. The morpheme -o:, for example, indicates both first person and non-preterite tense.
The affixes are divided into prefixal and suffixal slots. In total, twenty-two affixes occupy one prefixal and four suffixal slots.

Prefixal slot 1 precedes the verb stem.

man- preterite negative morpheme (NEG.PT)

Suffixal slot 1 contains the preterite marker and portemanteau morphemes that indicate tense and involve one or two actants. The synchronic system of verbal affixation shows that third person patient preterite -u is expressed unless there is a portemanteau morpheme present in the affixal string that indicates both agent and patient.

-a preterite (PT)
-o: first singular non-preterite (1s.NPT)
-o first singular preterite (1s.PT)
-ŋa first singular negative preterite (1s.NEG.PT)
-ya first plural non-preterite (1p.NPT)
-i first plural preterite (1p.PT)
-am 1p 3 non-preterite (1p→3.NPT)
-um 1p-3 preterite (1p→3.PT)

The relative position of the dual marker -ci in the suffixal string enables us to identify and posit suffixal slot 2 because the dual marker follows the preterite tense marker -a in suffixal slot 1 and precedes the exclusive marker -ka in suffixal slot 3.

-e	non-first person singular (n1s)
-cu	d→3
-num	2p→3
-ci	dual (d)
-ni	second person plural (2p)
-ci	third person non-singular (3ns)

Suffixal slot 3 is only occupied by the exclusive morpheme -ka. 

The last suffixal slot is occupied by the negative non-preterite morpheme -no (NEG.NPT).

PREFIXES
The preterite negative prefix man-, mam-, maŋ- (NEG.PT) in prefixal slot indicates negation and preterite tense in all persons. Besides indicating negation and preterite tense in all persons, the prefix man- is found in the finite verb forms man-tu and man-chu which mean 'is not' and 'should not' respectively. Moreover, the prefix man- is the marker of negation for non-finite forms such as infinitives in -ma, active participles in -pa, and forms ending in the negated simultaneous suffix -mo or sequential suffix -na.

SUFFIXES
The tense marker -a occurs in affirmative forms of the preterite. The preterite tense marker -a s not found in verb forms in which preterite tense is already indicated by a portemanteau morpheme, e.g. the first plural preterite suffix -i. The Kulung tense system distinguishes between an unmarked non-preterite tense and a marked preterite tense. Non-preterite tense is used for depicting actions and events that take place at the moment of speech or in the future, whereas preterite tense refers to past actions or events.
The first singular non-preterite actant morpheme -o: indicates a first singular actant in the non-preterite tense.
The first singular preterite actant morpheme -o indicates a first singular actant in the preterite tense.
The first singular negative preterite morpheme -ŋa occurs in negative preterite forms with a first singular actant.
The first plural non-preterite morpheme -ya indicates a first plural person in the non-preterite tense.
The first plural preterite morpheme -i,  -yi indicates a first plural in the preterite tense. This suffix has an allomorph -yi after stems ending in a vowel or nasal.
The 1p→3.NPT morpheme -am indicates a transitive relationship between a first person plural agent and a third person patient in the non-preterite tense.
The 1p→3.PT morpheme -um indicates a transitive relationship between a first person plural agent and a third person patient in the preterite tense.
The second singular preterite morpheme -na, -nna, -n indicates the involvement of a second person singular in the preterite tense. The suffix has an allomorph -nna after stems ending in a vowel and an allomorph -n when followed by the dual suffix -ci or by the question particle -yo.
The 1s→2.NPT morpheme -yan indicates the transitive relationship between a first singular agent and a second person patient in the non-preterite tense.
The 1s→3.PT morpheme -u indicates the transitive relationship of a third person patient with a first singular person agent in the preterite tense.
The 3P.NPT morpheme -ə indicates a third person patient with a non-first singular person agent in the non-preterite tense.
The third person patient preterite morpheme -u indicates a third person patient in the preterite tense.
The non-first person singular morpheme -e, indicating a non-first person, is an epenthetic suffix that is elided in most verb forms, e.g. before the non-preterite negative suffix -no, the conditional suffix -do and the reported speech suffix -tʰe. The suffix differs from other verbal affixes in that the non-first person singular morpheme is found after the interrogative pronouns as-e ‘who is it?' and u-i-e 'what is it?'.
The d-3 morpheme -cu indicates the transitive relationship of a dual agent and a third person patient.
The second person plural agent morpheme -num indicates the transitive relationship of a second plural agent and a third person patient.
The dual morpheme -ci, -s indicates dual actant number. This suffix has an allomorph -s in negative preterite first person dual exclusive form and some other paradigmatically conditioned forms.
The second person plural morpheme -ni indicates a second person plural actant in intransitive forms and in 1→2p, 2p→1s and 1ns/3→2p forms.
The third person non-singular morpheme -ci, -s indicates non-singular number of a third person actant. This morpheme has the allomorph -s in negative non-preterite 2s→3ns and (3→3)ns forms and when followed by the subordinate particle -ka or the reported speech particle -tʰe.
The exclusive morpheme -ka indicates exclusive actant except in 1→2 forms. The Kulung paradigm does not distinguish the various 1ns→2 forms from the corresponding 3→2 forms.
The non-preterite negative morpheme -no indicates negation in the non-preterite tense.

Verbs 'to be'
The verb tuma ‘to be, sit' is used to express existential, attributive and locational meaning.
In existential meaning, the phrase can be interpreted as an equivalent of the English verb 'to have'. In such a construction, the possessor appears in the genitive.
Constructions with copular meaning are made by the juxtaposition of two nouns.
The verb chuma ‘to be, become' is used to express inchoativity, exigency or intrinsic property.
